## Addressing clinical questions through perceptual research

There's an old science joke that goes something like this: A dairy farmer is looking for ways to increase the output of his cows, as cheaply as possible.
He consults an agronomist, who recommends changes to the feedstock and new equipment which will require major investments. He turns to a biologist, who suggests hormone treatments that will be cheaper, but still involve an outlay of more money than he wants to spend.
Finally, he turns to a physicist, who promises a free solution. He eagerly asks her to explain her idea.
She begins, "First, assume a spherical cow with radius *r* and mass *m*, uniformly emitting milk in all directions..."

To many clinicians, perceptual research on medical image interpretation can sometimes seem like the equivalent of a spherical cow emitting milk in all directions.
Perceptual studies typically abstract away from the specificity and messiness of the clinical reading context in order to gain experimental control.
Complex stimuli are simplified, narrative reports are replaced with binary responses, clinical history is absent, and the life-and-death stakes of the clinic are removed.
Consider Wolfe and Horowitz's work on the effects of prevalence [@doi:10.1037/0096-3445.136.4.623], in which amateur observers drawn from the Cambridge, MA community searching for the letter "T" concealed among arrays of "L"s are meant to have some relevance to radiologists searching for cancerous lesions in mammograms or lung CTs.
Traditional medical image perception research may skew closer to the clinical experience, using experienced professional readers and real cases.
Even so, the consequences for a missed target or unnecessary callback are not the same.
Furthermore, in perceptual research each trial in a given experimental condition is assumed to be equivalent to other trials (because stimuli are typically randomly and algorithmically generated), to the clinician, each case is unique, leading to a reluctance to generalize.
All of these factors may lead to a certain skepticism in the clinician community about the value of perception research, especially in the face of the difficulties raised in the *Identifying Research Gaps* section.

There is a trend in medical image perception studies where the researcher follows a "Reverse Translation" model to assess clinical problems.
This is where a researcher observes a problem in the clinic that resembles an area of perception research they are doing in the lab or has familiarity with.
The researcher will then develop lab versions of the problem to study the basic perceptual and cognitive science principles of the problem.
These studies will sometimes use observer models or undergraduate students as they are more efficient to use lab studies as clinicians time is limited.
After many iterations of working out the basic science and once the researcher has a good working hypothesis, they will then go back in the clinical setting to test their hypothesis.
A major issue with this model is that the problems that are being assessed are not the critical issues that clinicians actually want answers to.
We propose researchers adopt a "Reverse Translation Phase 2" model, where researchers investigate problems and that are important to the clinician and then follow the same "Reverse Translation" procedure.

Within the "Reverse Translation Phase 2" model, there are key assumptions that allow for the translation of principles studied and derived from lab studies to the clinical setting even when clinicians or medical images are not being utilized.
First, clinicians and non-clinicians have the same visual systems and perceptual and cognitive faculties that allow us to process and interpret stimuli.
Second, artificial tasks and stimuli capture the key elements of the clinical tasks and stimuli. Going back to the work on prevalence effects, studying the effect of low prevalence on radiologists' performance with a reader study would take years to complete and would put a substantial burden on clinicians.
Medical image perception studies have replicated the prevalence effect in the lab setting using non-clinician readers and non-medical image stimuli [@doi:10.1038/435439a], demonstrated low prevalence influences non-clinician and clinician readers' response criteria [@doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0064366; @doi:10.5858/arpa.2010-0739-OA; @doi:10.1016/j.cub.2009.11.066], and have proposed potential solutions to mitigate prevalence effects [@doi:10.1016/j.visres.2010.04.020; @doi:10.1167/9.1.31; @doi:10.3758/s13414-012-0354-4; @doi:10.1167/13.3.33].
